well in Gaza the war has taken a
devastating toll on Palestinian women
and children hospitals are overwhelmed
and that means that many can't get basic
care the UN says at least 50,000
pregnant women are unable to access
health services 5,000 500 of them are
expected to give birth this month and
it's unclear how they can reach
hospitals through a war zone or get the
care they need let's bring in Dominic
Allen he is the United Nations
population funds representatives for the
state of pales he joins us now from
occupied East Jerusalem Dominic what
facilities are actually available right
now and how long will they be able to
keep
functioning well thanks Natalia I think
it's been a horrific week and as your
report have shown the unfolding
humanitarian crisis in Gaza is truly
catastrophic there are uh around 1
million women and girls in Gaza and
unfpa is extremely concerned as you said
for the 50,000 pregnant women who right
now now cannot access basic maternity
health services and because of this they
face this double Nightmare and this is
as part of a bigger uh challenge with
the healthcare system this is a
healthare system on the back of uh 16
years of a blockade it's crippled it's
under attack and on the brink of
collapse and as you pointed to these
pregnant women have nowhere to go and
they're facing Unthinkable challenges
how has this evacuation order for
Northern Gaza affected things obviously
sounds like heavily pregnant women have
been forced to flee
yes I mean so our team is uh is
obviously as part of the UN team on the
ground and trying to support as much as
possible but the stories we hear from
testimonies from gar and pregnant women
gathered in the last few days are really
shocking very shocking um one pregnant
woman said and I would like to quote her
I couldn't help but think how my baby
was feeling with every explosion um and
this is a a pregnant woman from the
north of Gaza and who was shaking with
every bombast and in amidst this in this
movement that she had to do uh over
Friday morning and in the past few days
what we've seen and heard is also
stories about where they felt that it
was nowhere for them to go the e the one
really bone chilling quote was was from
one 30-year-old pregnant woman who told
us each step feels like a race against
death um one of those women no did say
as she's sitting in the in the shelter
on a cold floor without basic Food
hygiene water at the very bare minimum
she was saying every kick and I want to
quote her again every quick kick from my
unborn child was giving me hope and
strength so we're working as TI we're
working as hard as we can to as your
previous report said try and get those
supplies into Gaza as soon as possible
and support the healthcare facilities
who which with with which we with with
which we work of course uh Dominic what
are the international law implications
here are there legal obligations to
protect these women and their
babies well I mean this is very clear um
and the Secretary General has called for
the respecting of international
humanitarian law civilians and healthc
care facilities are not a Target and we
call for their protection the violence
has to end the siege has to end and
humanitarian Aid must be able to get
through and that is part of where not
only the the gazen population the the 1
million women but these 50,000 pregnant
women which I'm speaking of and unfp is
deeply concerned about they need to get
access to those Healthcare facilities
they need that humanitarian Aid to get
through and all parties need to abide by
International humanitarian law Dominic
you talked about trying to get Aid into
them is there a way or any kind of a
plan to try to evacuate them to get them
out we're focused uh at the moment
around this major challenge around Gaza
Running Out of Water electricity Health
supplies and other issues uh so right
now the UN itself has stocks available
of those items food water medical
supplies fuel it's located in Egypt in
Jordan in the West Bank in Israel and
these goods are ready to be dispatched
within hours so our focus and uh our our
our staff on the ground are working
tirelessly across the UN system with our
NGO Partners to be ready to get those
supplies across as soon as a
humanitarian Corridor can be negotiated
and uh and can then be delivered Dominic
Allan there the UN population funds
repres representative for the state of
Palestine thank you so much for joining
us Dominic and we really wish you and
the agency all the best with your
work thank you very much